DOCPROPERTY &quot;Title&quot; Requirement &amp; Design Specification Cinema Ticket Booking System (CTBS) Version: 1.0 GROUP 03 Nguyễn Đình Dương - HE186619 Đào Duy Ninh - HE186113 Lê Xuân Triển - HE182285 Nguyễn Minh Đức - HE170883 – Hanoi, November 2025 – Record of Changes Version Date A* M, D In charge Change Description V1.0 8/1 A Context Diagram 12/1 A UCs Diagram 15/1 A Main Workflow for actors 19/1 A Workflow A User Requirements A Screens flow 22/1 A Functional Requirements *A - Added M - Modified D - Deleted Contents TOC \h \u \z \t &quot;Heading 1,1,Heading 2,2,Heading 3,3,&quot; Record of Changes 2 I. Overview 5 1. System Context 5 2. External Entities 5 3. Business Processes 6 3.1 Movie Ticket Booking Process 6 3.2 Room Management Process &amp; Movies Management Process 7 3.3 Showtimes Management Process 8 3.4 Admin Data Management Process 8 4. User Requirements 9 4.1 UCs for Guest 10 4.2 UCs for Customer 11 4.3 UCs for Manager 12 4.4 UCs for Admin 13 5. System Functionalities 14 5.1 Screens Flow 14 5.2 Screen Authorization 15 5.3 Non-UI Functions 16 II. Functional Requirements 17 1. Customer interface 17 1.1 Register 17 1.2 Login 19 1.3 View profile Information 20 1.4 Update profile Information 22 1.5 Change Password 23 1.6 View Home Page 25 1.7 View list of movies 27 1.8 View detailed movie information 29 1.9 View Cinema List 31 1.10 View promotions list 32 1.11 View booking history 34 2. Admin interface 36 2.1 Manage Movie 36 3. System Administration 40 3.1 Master Data 40 3.2 User Management 41 III. System Design 42 1. Software Architecture 42 1.1 Overall Architectural Diagram 42 1.2 Component Descriptions 42 2. Code Package Design 42 2.1 Package Diagram 43 2.2 Package Descriptions 43 3. Database Design 43 3.1 Database Schema 43 3.2 Table Descriptions 44 I. Overview 1. System Context The Cinema Ticket Booking System is a digital platform designed to automate and streamline the entire process of movie ticket reservations, showtime scheduling, and cinema management. This system serves as a centralized hub connecting various stakeholders, including customers, cinema staff, and external financial services. The system is expected to evolve over several releases, initially focusing on core booking functionalities and ultimately expanding to integrate with multiple local cinema chains and diverse third-party payment gateways. 2. External Entities # Actor Description 1 Admin Manages the system, including movies, showtime, tickets, revenue, customer, promotion and combo. Has the authority to add, edit, and delete related data. 2 Manager Manages tickets (update/cancel/book for customers), manages seat, manage cinema room and mange combo. 3 Guest Unregistered users who can browse movie listings, view showtimes, check seat availability, and register for an account. 4 Customer Registered users who can view movie listings, showtimes, book tickets, select seats, make payments, cancel tickets within a given timeframe, manage personal accounts 3. Business Processes 3.1 Movie Ticket Booking Process 3.2 Room Management Process &amp; Movies Management Process 3.3 Showtimes Management Process 3.4 Admin Data Management Process 4. User Requirements ID Feature Use Case Use Case Description 01 View Movie List View movies, filter by name, genre. Explore available movies and filter them by different criteria. 02 View movie details View movie info (name, genre, duration, description, trailer). Provides detailed info about movies, such as their description, genre, and available trailers. 03 View showtimes View schedules by date, theater, and room. Allows users to view schedules for specific theaters, rooms, and dates. 04 View seat availability Seats shown in green (available) or red (booked). Check seat availability using color-coding for easy decision-making. 05 Register, Login, Forgot password Create an account, log in, or recover password. Allows users to register, log in, or reset their password. 06 View showtimes and book ticket View schedules, select seats, confirm, and pay. Book tickets by selecting available seats from a movie schedule. 07 Manage account information View booking history, update personal details, change password. Customers manage their accounts and update details such as password or personal info. 08 Manage movies Add, edit, delete movies, update status (showing, upcoming). Admins manage all movie-related information including movie updates and availability. 09 Manage showtimes Add, edit, delete showtimes, organize by time and theater. Admins can create and modify showtimes, as well as organize them by theaters and dates. 10 Manage tickets and revenue Track ticket sales, view revenue reports, analyze most popular movies. Admins can monitor ticket sales, revenue, and generate reports for business analysis. 11 Manage users View customer list, lock accounts if necessary. Admin control user accounts, including locking accounts when needed. 12 Manage theater seating Configure seat layout, add, edit seating details. Manager can arrange seats in theaters, modifying seating plans as necessary. 13 Manage theater room Add and edit theater room Manager can create, update, or remove theater rooms 14 Manage account Find account by name,add manager account, change account status Admin can manage all account, create new account manager and change status of account 15 Manage promotion Add, edit and remove promotion Admin can create, update or remove promotions. 16 Manage combo Add, edit and remove combo Admin, manager can create, update or remove combo. 17 Manage Showtime Add, edit and remove Showtime Admin, manager can create, update or remove showtime. 18 Manage Seat Add, edit and remove Seat Admin, manager can create, update or remove seats. 19 View Blog View Blog List with title,description Guest can view the information which is updated 20 Manage Blog Add, edit, delete information from blog Manager can create, update, or remove blogs. 4.1 UCs for Guest 4.2 UCs for Customer 4.3 UCs for Manager 4.4 UCs for Admin 5. System Functionalities 5.1 Screens Flow 5.1.1 Screens Flow of Manager 5.1.2 Screen Flows for Customers 5.1.3 Screens Flow of Admin 5.2 Screen Authorization Screen Guest Customer Manager Admin Home Page x x x x Login x x x x Register x Forgot Password x x x View Movie List x x x x View Detail Movie x x x x View Detail Promotion x x x x Admin Dashboard x x Account Profile Information x x x Update Account Information x x x Change Password x x x View List Blog x x x x View Blog Details x x x x View List Customer x Update Customer Account Status x View Manage Movie x Create New Movie x Update Movie x View Manage Showtime x x Create New Showtime x x Update Showtimes x x View Manage Cinema x Create New Cinema x Update Cinema x View Manage Room x Create New Room x Update Room x View Manage Seat x x Add Seat x x Update Seat x x View Promotion x x Add Promotion x x Update Promotion x x View Combo x x Add Combo x x Update Combo x x View Blog Management x x Add Blog x x Update Blog x x 5.3 Non-UI Functions [Provide the descriptions for the non-screen system functions, i.e batch/cron job, service, API, etc.] # Feature System Function Description 1 &lt;&lt;Feature Name&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;Function Name1&gt;&gt; &lt;&lt;Function Name1 Description&gt;&gt; 2 … II. Functional Requirements 1. Customer interface 1.1 Register Use Case Name: Register Created By: DuongND Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest Secondary Actors None Trigger: A guest who doesn't have an account chooses to register. Description: This use case allows guests who don't have an account to create an ac count Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest has an email account Postconditions: POST-1: The guest now have a user account POST-2: The guest is redirected to the login page Normal Flow 1. The guest navigates to the Login on Homepage. 2. The guest enters their unregistered email, display name, phone,password and other fields. 3.The guest submits the register form if validation fails, an error message is displayed. 4.The system validates the credentials against the database like email existed or phone existed . 5.Upon successful validation, the guest is redirected to the homepage. Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: - If any fields are empty, display an error message. - If the email, or phone number exists, display an error message. Priority: High Frequency of Use: Frequently Business Rule The email is unique in the database. The phone is unique in the database. 1.2 Login UseCase Name: Login Created By: DuongND Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer, Admin/Manager Secondary Actors None Trigger: A guest with a previously registered account chooses to log in. Description: This use case allows guests who have registered before to access personalized features by logging into the system. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest has previously registered and has a valid account. Postconditions: POST-1: The admin and manager accesses their exclusive features. POST-2: The guest is redirected to the homepage or their personal dashboard. Normal Flow The guest navigates to the login page. The guest enters their registered email and password. The guest submits the login form. The system validates the credentials against the database. Upon successful validation, the guest is logged in and redirected to their personalized area. If validation fails, an error message is displayed. Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: - If any mandatory fields are empty, display an error message. - If the username, email, or phone number is incorrect or does not exist, display an error message. Priority: High Frequency of Use: Frequently Business Rule -If the account is banned, that account cannot login to the website. 1.3 View profile Information Use Case Name: View Account Profile Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer, Admin, Manager Secondary Actors None Trigger: Customers view their profile information. Description: This use case allows viewing personal profile details such as name, email, and contact information. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: logged in into the website with registered account Postconditions: POST-1: The Customer, Admin, Manager can view their profile details. Normal Flow The guest navigates to the profile page. The system retrieves the customer's profile data from the database.. The profile details (name, email, contact info) are displayed. Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: 1.If the customer is not logged in, they are prompted to log in first 2.If the system is unable to retrieve data, an error message is displayed. Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Frequently Business Rule None 1.4 Update profile Information Use Case Name: Update Account information Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer Secondary Actors None Trigger: Customers can update their profile information. Description: Allows modify their personal information such as name and phone. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The customer is logged in. Postconditions: POST-1: The profile is updated successfully. POST-2: The updated information is saved in the database and reflected in the customer's account. Normal Flow The customer navigates to the profile settings page. The customer modifies their personal details. The customer submits the updated profile form. The system validates and saves the changes. The updated profile is displayed. Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: 1.If not logged in, they are prompted to log in first 2.If any required fields are missing or invalid, an error message is displayed. Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business Rule The email Address can not be changed or updated. Phone number must contains 10 numbers 1.5 Change Password Use Case Name: Change password Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer Secondary Actors None Trigger: Customer wants to change their password Description: This use case allows customers to change their password through their account settings. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: Login to the website by registered account.. Postconditions: POST-1: The new password is updated in the system. POST-2: The customer is required to log in again with the new password. Normal Flow The Customer navigates to the profile settings page. The Customer selects the option to change their password. The Customer enters their current password and new password. The system validates the current password and updates to the new password. The Customer is logged out and must log in with the new password. Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: If the new password does not meet the security requirements, an error message is shown. Priority: High Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business Rule The password must meet the security requirements such as containing at least one uppercase letter, one special letter. 1.6 View Home Page UC ID and Name: View Home Page Created By: NinhDD Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer, Admin, Manager Secondary Actors None Trigger: User want to view the home page of system Description: This use case allows users to view the home page and many information such as movies showing, active promotions,... Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. Postconditions: POST-1: The user can view the showing movies and movies coming soon. Normal Flow The user navigates to the home pages Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: None Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Usually Business Rule None 1.7 View list of movies Use Case Name: View list of movies Created By: DuongND Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer Secondary Actors Admin,Manager Trigger: A user wants to see a list of movies currently showing or upcoming. Description: This use case allows users to see the list of upcoming movies and movies that are showing. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: There are movies available in the database. Postconditions: POST-1: The guests, customers, admin, managers can view a list of movies. POST-2: The movies are displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The user navigates to the movies listing page. The system retrieves the list of movies from the database. The system displays the poster of the movie. Alternative Flows: If there are no movies available, a message is displayed: &quot;No movies available.&quot; Exceptions: If the database connection fails, an error message is displayed: &quot;Error when taking the film list.&quot; Priority: High Frequency of Use: Frequently Business Rule none 1.8 View detailed movie information Use Case Name: View detailed movie information Created By: NinhDD Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer Secondary Actors Admin,Manager Trigger: An user clicks the &quot;View Detail&quot; button under a movie in the list to view more details. Description: This use case allows users to view detailed information about a selected movie, including the description, director, duration, genre, release time, rating. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest, customer,admin or manager is on the movies listing page. Postconditions: POST-1: The user can view detailed information about the selected movie. POST-2: The detailed information is displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The user navigates to the movie listing page. The user selects a movie to view details. The system retrieves detailed information about the selected movie from the database. The system displays the movie details, including title, genre,description, director, duration,release time and ratings. Alternative Flows: If there are no movies available, a message is displayed: “Movie details not available.” Exceptions: - If the database connection fails, an error message is displayed: &quot;Unable to retrieve movie details. Please try again later.&quot; Priority: High Frequency of Use: Frequently Business Rule: none 1.9 View Cinema List Use Case Name: View Cinema List Created By: DuongND Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer, Secondary Actors Admin,Manager Trigger: A user wants to see the list of cinemas. Description: This use case allows users to see the cinemas which are available. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: There are cinemas available in the database. Postconditions: POST-1: The user can view information about his/her dashboard. POST-2: The cinema list is displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The user navigates to the cinema listing page The system retrieves the list of cinemas from the database. The system displays the name of the cinema. Alternative Flows: If there are no cinemas available, a message is displayed: &quot;No cinema available.&quot; Exceptions: - If the database connection fails, an error message is displayed: &quot;Unable to retrieve cinema list. Please try again later.&quot; Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Often Business Rule None 1.10 View promotions list Use Case Name: View promotions Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer Secondary Actors None Trigger: The customer chooses promotions on the sidebar Description: This use case allows customers to view lists of promotion Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. Postconditions: POST-1:The List of promotions will be displayed Normal Flow 1.The customer navigates to manage promotion 2.The customer views promotions list Alternative Flow None Exceptions: None Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business rule None 1.11 View Booking Ticket Use Case Name: Booking Ticket Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer Secondary Actors None Trigger: The customer chooses “Book Now” in a movie. Description: The customer wants to book ticket for a movie Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The customer is logged in with the appropriate permissions. Postconditions: POST-1: The booking is added to the database and shown in customer booking history, staff’s booking list. Normal Flow 1.The customer navigates to home or movie list. 2.The customer selects a specific movie from the list to book 3.The customer selects a showtime from list of available showtimes 4.The customer selects available seats. 5.The customer confirms then is redirected to the booking details page. 6.The customer makes payment through VNPAY Payment Gateway. 7.The customer will be navigated to the thank you page if the payment is successful Alternative Flow The customer selects available combos(if needed) The customer apply promotion (if available) Exceptions: If the payment fails, the system will show an error message, and the ticket will not be sent to the customer. If selected seats is no longer available or fully booked by the time the customer confirms the booking, display an error message Customer applies a promotion code, but it is invalid, expired, show an error message Priority: High Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business rule 1.Customers have a maximum of 5 minutes to complete the payment after the payment request is generated. Cannot book tickets when the showtime has passed. 2.Confirm successful transactions immediately by showing a confirmation page and sending a receipt via email. 1.12 View booking history Use Case Name: View Booking History Created By: DuongND Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Customer Secondary Actors None Trigger: A customer clicks “ My Booking ” in the navigation bar. Description: This use case allows customers to view their booking history including id,booking date, total price,.. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The customers click to view booking history list Postconditions: POST-1: The customer can view booking history list POST-2: The detailed information is displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The customer navigates to the booking history The system retrieves detailed information about booking history from database The system displays a recent booking, total booking , total money spending…. Alternative Flows: If there is no booking recently, a message is displayed ”There is no recent booking. ” If the detailed information retrieval fails, an error message is displayed: &quot;Unable to retrieve Information. Please try again later.&quot; Exceptions: - If the database connection fails, an error message is displayed: &quot;Unable to retrieve movie details. Please try again later.&quot; Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Often Business Rule None 1.13 View list of blog Use Case Name: View list of movies Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 25/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer Secondary Actors Admin,Manager Trigger: A user wants to see a list of blogs. Description: This use case allows users to see the list of blog. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: There are blogs available in the database. Postconditions: POST-1: The guests, customers, admin, managers can view a list of blogs. POST-2: The blogs are displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The user navigates to the blogs listing page. The system retrieves the list of blogs from the database. The system displays the poster, title and release date of the blog. Alternative Flows: If there are no movies available, a message is displayed: &quot;No blogs available at the moment.&quot; Exceptions: none Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business Rule none 1.14 View detail’s blog Use Case Name: View detail’s blog Created By: TrienLX Date Created: 25/01/2026 Primary Actor: Guest, Customer Secondary Actors Admin,Manager Trigger: An user clicks the “Details&quot; button under a blog in the list to view more details. Description: This use case allows users to view detailed information about a selected blog, including the title, description, release date, blog poster. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest, customer,admin or manager is on the blog’s listing page. Postconditions: POST-1: The user can view detailed information about the selected blog. POST-2: The detailed information is displayed accurately from the database. Normal Flow The user navigates to the blog’s listing page. The user selects a blog to view details. The system retrieves detailed information about the selected blog from the database. The system displays the detail’s blog, including the title, description, release date, blog poster. Alternative Flows: If there are no blogs available, a message is displayed: “No blogs available at the moment.” Exceptions: None Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business Rule: none 2. Admin interface 2.1 Manage Movie 2.1.1 View Movie List UC Name: View Movie List Created By: NinhDD Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Admin Secondary Actors None Trigger: Admin has the ability to view movie lists. Description: Allows admin to view lists of movies. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The Admin is logged in. PRE-3: The Admin click to view detail of specific movie Postconditions: POST-1: The exact information of the movie. Normal Flow 1.The Admin navigates to Movie Management 2.The Admin can view the information of the movie. 3.The information is uploaded from the database . Alternative Flows: None Exceptions: If the admin is not logged in, the system will be lead to login page Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally 2.1.2 Add Movie UC Name: Add movie Created By: NinhDD Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Admin Secondary Actors None Trigger: The admin chooses the create button movie management page. Description: This use case allows admin/staff to create a movie Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest login as an admin PRE-3: Navigates to the view movie management page. Postconditions: POST-1: A new movie is created POST-2: The admin is redirected to the admin movie management page Normal Flow The admin chooses create movie management page The admin enters movie name, duration, genre, director, release date, description, age rate, price and image file and click add new movie. Upon successful validation, the admin is redirected to the admin view promotion page, a new movie is created and shown and a message “Added” is displayed. Alternative Flow None Exceptions: - If any mandatory fields are empty, display an error message. - If the input is invalid, display an error message. e. Priority: High Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business rule Only the admin can create this page. 2.1.3 Update Movie Use Case Name: Update Movie Created By: NinhDD Date Created: 22/01/2026 Primary Actor: Admin Secondary Actors None Trigger: The admin chooses the update button movie management page. Description: This use case allows the admin to update movies. Preconditions: PRE-1: The website can be accessed. PRE-2: The guest login as an admin PRE-3: Navigates to the view movie management page. Postconditions: POST-1: The chosen movie is updated. POST-2: The admin is redirected to the admin movie management page Normal Flow The admin navigates to movie management page The admin chooses a movie to update. Upon successful validation, the admin is redirected to the admin view promotion page, the new promotion event is created and shown and a message “Update successfully” is displayed. Alternative Flow None Exceptions: If the chosen movie is not updated, it displays update 0 row and redirects to the movie management page. Priority: Medium Frequency of Use: Occasionally Business rule None 3. System Administration 3.1 Master Data 3.1.1 Setting List Field Description Field Name Description (1) Initial values: all the active setting names with null or blank type Hover the mouse to show the field name: “Setting Type” (2) Initial values: All Statuses, Active, Inactive (default value “All Status”) Hover the mouse to show the field name: “Setting Status” (3) The change-status action is Activate or Deactivate depending on the current status of the relevant setting (Inactive or Active, respectively). 3.1.2 Setting Details Field Description Field Name Description Name Data type: non-digit string, max length of 20 characters Type Initial data values: all active setting names (with null or blank type) Value Data type: any string, max length of 100 characters Priority Data type: a positive integer Description Data type: any string, max length of 200 characters 3.2 User Management 3.2.1 User List … III. System Design 1. Software Architecture 1.1 Overall Architectural Diagram 1.2 Component Descriptions No Component Description 01 Presentation Logic Layer &lt;Description of the component&gt; 02 User Interface &lt;Description of the package&gt; 03 … 2. Code Package Design 2.1 Package Diagram 2.2 Package Descriptions No Package Description 01 View &lt;Description of the package&gt; 02 bean &lt;Description of the package&gt; 03 … 3. Database Design 3.1 Database Schema 3.2 Table Descriptions 3.2.1 table_name1 No Field PK FK UN NN Description 01 &lt;field_name1&gt; &lt;Description of the field_name1&gt; 02 &lt;field_name2&gt; … .. 3.2.2 table_name2
